---
layout: post
title: "Syllabus"
---

# Special Projects in Tiny Computing syllabus

Course Name: Special Projects in Tiny Computing  
Course Number: NME 1450  
Dates: Tuesdays 2:30pm - 6:10pm  
Professor: Lee Tusman  
Contact: lee.tusman@purchase.edu  
Office hours: Mondays 11am - 1pm  
Class site: CMFT 0039

## Required

Prerequisites: 
* Programming for Visual Artists 
* OR Computer Science 1

Hardware:

* A raspberry pi computer
* input devices (keyboard, mice, etc)
* output device (monitor, speakers, etc)
* micro or mini SD card (depending on what Pi you use) for the operating system
* power supply

*IMPORTANT: While some equipment will be provided by the department to be used during the semester, all students are ultimately responsible for their equipment needs. As students develop projects they will need to purchase or procure any needed supplies like sensors, cases, input devices, external "hats", motors, and the like.*

Software:

We will use free and open source software in this course throughout the semester.

### Course Description

Students create custom projects using inexpensive, bank card–sized computers for art installations and works for the public good. Students will conceptualize, design and implement new computer-based devices and participate in critique of contemporary technology and networked devices. In the process, their knowledge of text-based interfaces, free culture, collaboration, circuit building, and the history of creative computing/hacking is deepened.

### Student Learning Objectives

* Apply knowledge of programming concepts with tiny computers 
* Make use of fabrication techniques including 3d printing and laser cutting 
* Design and build new computing devices and physical computing projects 
* Present a history of computing by critiqung its past and creating speculative ideas for a more equitable technological future
* Deploy and customize a Linux operating system to create specialized project-based computer systems

### Recommended Books

There are no required books, but there are several books on Raspberry Pi available at the library. There are also many websites and tutorials for learning Raspberry Pi. We will be using the Linux family of operating systems in this class. 

Books available in the library:

* Raspberry Pi cookbook
* Getting Started with Raspberry Pi

### Academic Integrity Policy

The Purchase College academic integrity policy explicitly forbids cheating, plagiarism, and other forms of academic dishonesty. Plagiarism is the appropriation or imitation of the language, ideas, and/or thoughts of another person and the representation of them as one’s own original work. Students are responsible for familiarizing themselves with the definition of plagiarism and the acceptable methods of attribution. Violation of any of the above may lead to formal disciplinary action and the following sanctions:

* Minimum Sanction: Failing grade on the assignment or examination. Maximum Sanction: Expulsion
* Recommended Sanction (First Offense): Failing grade for the course
* Recommended Sanction (Second Offense): Expulsion

Students who have any questions or doubts about whether any activity is academically permissible should check with the instructor.

### Accessibility Statement

The Office of Disability Resources collaborates directly with students who identify documented disabilities to create accommodation plans, including testing accommodations, in order for students to access course content and validly demonstrate learning. For those students who may require accommodations, please contact the Office of Disability Resources as soon as possible, 914-251-6035, ODR@purchase.edu (Student Services Building, #316A), https://www.purchase.edu/odr.

### Mental Health and Well-being

University faculty and staff recognize that mental health and stress can impact college performance and interfere with daily life activities. At Purchase, Counseling & Behavioral Health Services can provide support if you’re struggling with feeling overwhelmed, anxious, depressed, lost, stuck or in a crisis. Please call (914)251-6390 or visit the [Counseling Center website](https://www.purchase.edu/counseling-center/)  for more information. CBHS services are free and confidential. 

We support all students experiencing emergencies. Services include therapy, support groups, stress reduction at the Harbor Center, and other activities.  The Counseling Center in Humanities Lower Level is open M-F, from 9:00a.m.– 5:00p.m. for appointments and walk-up scheduling, or call (914) 251-6390.  The Harbor Center Sanctuary in Fort Awesome is available for stress reduction, mindfulness and meditation training, free drop-in classes and support groups, and relaxation.

### Student Contact

All students are expected to conduct themselves in accordance with Purchase College’s Student Code of Conduct.  Any repetitive or disruptive behavior, including but not limited to outbursts, intoxication/drug use, personal or physical threats, damage to property, etc., may result in the professor requesting the student to leave class, contacting University Police, and/or notifying the Office of Community Standards.

### Learning Center (Tutoring Support)

All students at Purchase College can take advantage of our tutoring services in the Learning Center and the Einstein Corner. These are free, 45-minute, peer-to-peer tutoring sessions in a variety of subjects and in writing across the disciplines. Sessions can happen in person or through the Online Writing Lab up to 3x/week. The OWL allows students to submit a paper draft and get written feedback by email within 48 business hours. We strongly recommend face-to-face meetings for first-year students and multilingual writers. I encourage you to take advantage of this service to help you excel in this class, as well as your other courses. Please visit the Learning Center and Einstein Corner websites for more information.

### Classroom expectations

* Please be on time, listen actively, and participate in class discussion and activities. 
* Please put cell phones in 'sleep' mode at the start of class. If you need such devices for personal obligations, please take a break and leave the classroom.
* Laptops may be used in class for note taking and coding only. During class, don't check social media, do homework for other classes, buy things, etc. Stay engaged in the class!

## Course Requirements

* Attendance and punctuality are expected for every class.  
* Attendance will be taken at every class.  
* Your presence is vital for participation in varied learning activities and small-group work.  
* You are allowed 1 unexcused absences.  
* Additional unexcused absences may affect your grade.  
* Late arrivals or early departures may be counted as absences.  
* **If you are sick, don't come to class. Get in touch with the professor.**
* If you miss class, it is your responsibility to find out from classmates what you missed and submit assignments on time.

Learning programming is a cumulative effort. Each class builds on what you have learned in previous classes. Missing class can substantially set you back in this process. Therefore, it is important that you attend every class. 

### Homework and Projects

* Submit your work on time for full credit.
* To receive an extension, consult with the instructor.
* All completed game projects will have deliverables. At minimum, you will need to turn in a game file along with a document with the title, game description, link to media online, and screenshots. There may be other requirements as well. 
* Smaller homework projects lead up to completion of larger projects.

Students are expected to be self-directed. This is a 4 credit class significant outside class homework expected.

This class will require some collaboration.

Coding can be difficult, and struggling with the material is part of the learning process. Students are allowed to collaborate to learn from each other. Do not collaborate in order to simply find out a solution to a project. Each participant should contribute approximately equally, and what you turn in should be your own. Copying a solution from another student, even if you change a few minor things such as variable names, is not a collaboration. You may help someone learn something, but you can not tell them what to code. If you have questions about collaboration or academic integrity, get in touch with me via email, talk with me before or after class, or come to office hours.

## University and Classroom Policies and Rules

### Official Purchase College Academic Integrity Policy

> The Purchase College academic integrity policy, [purchase.edu/live/blurbs/840-academic-and-professional-integrity](https://www.purchase.edu/live/blurbs/840-academic-and-professional-integrity), explicitly forbids cheating, plagiarism, and other forms of academic dishonesty. Plagiarism is the appropriation or imitation of the language, ideas, and/or thoughts of another person and the representation of them as one’s own original work. Students are responsible for familiarizing themselves with the definition of plagiarism and the acceptable methods of attribution.

> Violation of any of the above may lead to formal disciplinary action and the following sanctions:
* Minimum Sanction: Failing grade on the assignment or
examination. Maximum Sanction: Expulsion
* Recommended Sanction (First Offense): Failing grade for the
course
* Recommended Sanction (Second Offense): Expulsion

> Students who have any questions or doubts about whether any activity is academically permissible should check with the
instructor.

Plagiarism and cheating are taken seriously. You will be held accountable for Purchase's [Student Code of Conduct for Academic Integrity](https://www.purchase.edu/offices/community-standards/student-code-of-conduct/section-a-academic-integrity/index.php).

### Tentative Nature of syllabus

If needed, this syllabus and the course outline may be revised to better suit the class. Students are responbile for keeping up with any changes distributed via email or in class. The most up to date syllabus will always be up to date on the class site.

### Expectations of Professor

I will be accessible to you in class, office hours, and online. I will respond promptly within 24 hours during the schoolweek to any questions and can clarify anything from our class.

I will use your preferred name and pronouns and treat you with respect.

If you come to me with a request or feedback I will listen and give my full consideration.

If you have a concern or an emergency I will help you to services and support.

I will give prompt and clear feedback to you on your progress in class at set points in the semester and any time you make a request via email.

### Tips

- Work with your classmates inside and outside of class
- Do Pair Programming
- Start your homework early, do it in a quiet place, and minimize distractions. Expect 8 hours of work outside class per week.
- Stay on top of your work. It will be hard to recover if you fall behind.

### Notes from Nick Montfort

> ...people do not typically struggle to learn how to program because programming is a technical or mathematical practice. 
> The main difficulty, instead, comes when people expect to be informed and to learn only by listening, watching, and taking some notes. Some people are under the impression that they can learn about programming simply by paying attention in class, reading a book, and perhaps having a discussion now and then....Programming is a practice, and it takes practice. Like learning how to drive a car or play a musical instrument or participate in a sport, the learner who does not do the activity - who does not undertake the practice - is not going to succeed. 
> ....So more than anything else: drive the car, play the instrument, and play the sport by actually programming the computer, often and like you mean it.

*Montfort, Nick. Exploratory Programming for the Arts and Humanities, 2nd edition, The MIT Press, 2021. Page 335, accessed 2024-01-21*

### Grades / Grading

* 60% Three assignments - three completed group projects. Each participant must turn in their own project documentation. (20% each project)
* 20% Class participation (including check-ins), attendance and readiness
* 20% Weekly homework

### Dates

Last day to withdraw from full-term courses: Friday, March 22.

Winter Break: Feb 19 - 20. No class Feb 20!

Spring Recess: March 25 - 29. No class March 26!

Final exam week:  May 8 - 14.

## Schedule

Week 1: Hello, distribute materials

Week 2: Basics, Project One Assignments

Week 3: Project One Reports and Work

Week 4: Project One Reports and Work

Week 5: Pi Fair Show & Project Two

Week 6: Collaborative Project Two Work

Week 7: Collaborative Project Two Work - Guest artist visitor: Amelia Marzec

Week 8: Study Day

Week 9: Pi Fair/Pi Jam Show

Week 10: Final Project Proposals

Week 11: Discussion, Individual Meetings & Studio Time

Week 12: Discussion, Individual Meetings & Studio Time

Week 13: Discussion, Individual Meetings & Studio Time

Week 14: Presentation and Critique

Week 15: Presentation and Critique
